With the actions in the reducer finished, we now need to connect our react native app to redux and connecting
involves two things,
first of all we need to make our react app aware of redux
and if you used redux on react for the web, you learned that you do this in the index.js file so
whenever
you basically mount your root component, you wrap it with this provider component from react native
and it's no different here.
So in the index.js file where we essentially tell react native what our root component is,
we will add an import to import something from the redux package,
excuse me, not from redux, from react redux, that something is our provider component.
Now this provider component here will be connected to our store and we'll then wrap this app component
so that we mount the provider component which is just a very thin wrapper that we mount that as our root
component. For that,
we first of all need to have a store though,
so let's go back to the store folder
and in there, I'll add a new file directly on the store folder level which is named configureStore.js,
the name is totally up to you.
This will just be a factory function that returns a store and I set it up as a factory function so that
we could pass an argument to it to dynamically configure the way we set up the store which can be
important if you want to have different configurations for iOS or Android.
But more about platform specific things later in the course,
for now let's simply configure the store by first of all importing something from the redux package.
So not from react redux but from redux itself, that something is named create store and it's a function
which does just that, it creates a store.
I also will import combine reducers,
we only have one reducer right now so technically this wouldnt be required right now but I still want
to import it
so that we, once we add more reducers, can add them very easily.
So let's create our new constant which is the root reducer then, there
I will use combine reducer to combine multiple reducers into one well root reducer.
That's actually simple, for that I need to import my reducers
and here we only got one,
it's my places reducer,
I import that from the reducers folder and there, from the places file. In combine reducers,
I now pass a javascript object where I map any keys of my choice to my reducers, here I will map places
so that I can later access this slice of the state, the places related slice on this property, to places
reducer just like this.
Now we can create our store
and for that I'll create another constant here which I'll name configure store which should be a function
which right now won't receive any arguments
but you could add them if you wanted to dynamically create your store. In here,
I will simply return a call to create store where I now will pass my root reducer as an argument because
create store expects to get one single reducer which can be combined reducer which will be
our root store or our single source of truth for this root store, the single place which may update
the root store and also defines the initial state since we defined it in the reducer. So with that, we
got this,
now I will export this configure store function as the default of this file. So with that, we get a way of
creating a store,
now I will go back to my index.js file and there, I will import my store. So I will import configure
store, this function from
and now let's go to the source folder to the store folder and there it's from the configure store file.
The next step is to create some jsx where we wrap our app component with the provider
and if our goal is to write jsx, we must not forget to import react from react
otherwise we will get an error, now I'll create a variable here and I'll simply name it
react native redux,
you can name it whatever you want and this will wrap some jsx code. It will wrap my provider component
which then or hold my provider component which then wraps my app component which is a self-closing
component.
The provider receives the store property where I simply want to pass my store, I'll create it and store
it in a variable named store or a constant named store by executing configure store,
keep in mind configure store is a function. So we execute that function,
it gives us back the store and that's the store I now pass to my provider.
With that the redux provider is connected to my store,
this is the part where you could pass extra configuration.
Now with that, we got our rn redux constant here, now we need to run this instead of our app, now using rn
redux like this wouldn't work
because this is just some jsx code
but register component actually expects to get a function here which doesn't return jsx as it would
now
but that returns another function that then returns jsx because keep in mind, previously we here
returned app and app was a react component
and what's the simplest way of writing a react component?
Well it's just writing a function like in place list, it's just a function, a function that returns jsx.
So here, it expects to get a react component and therefore, it expects to get a function that returns
jsx.
Well that's no problem, let's simply rewrite this here to a simple react component,
so to a function which then returns our jsx code,
so I quickly turned this into an arrow function that returns this jsx code.
With that, I now can use rn redux because now we have a function here where we have another function
that returns jsx.
So this is now connected, we got a store, that's all connected,
let's now connect our container to react redux so that there, we can dispatch actions and we can get
our state.
Let's do that in the next lecture.